A material portion of Mertonon is open source, but Mertonon is not open contribution. Mertonon is open to contribution from people who I judge are contributing in good faith. I'm hoping that this is going to be most people most of the time, but I'm also resigned to this sometimes not being the case. The judgment of who is contributing in good faith is arbitrary at this time, but will transition to having some justification at some point in time when we get a threat model.

We will not make you sign a conventional give-all-your-rights-to-me-specifically CLA but we will have a contractual method of ensuring that relicensing, if there is relicensing, gets done by Mertonon-weighted vote on the dogfooding instance rather than the "Nie pozwalam!" of the old Polish sejm, which is the default. We don't have an implementation of Mertonon-weighted vote yet or a clear vision of what Mertonon-weighted voting is going to look like yet. We do need prior preparation for relicensing because the notion of intellectual property will unquestionably be in flux in the shadow of the generative stuff, and that will unquestionably lead to changes to the notion of software licensing and material changes in OSS licenses. We will never switch to a BUSL, SSPL or like license. We will sell commercial licenses to the AGPL code for anyone who bans AGPL stuff.

There's a fair tradition in Clojure-land of having non-open-contribution OSS. I think I can also squeeze some good-faith from shaking hands in-person and buying people literal, actual coffee, but we will have to figure out what to do when that also comes to an end. If you're serious about contributing and in the SF Bay Area, contact me to have coffee. Much of the modern one-man OSS that fails to create a community, as far as I can tell, fails because online community is multiple orders of magnitude worse at actual community-building than shaking hands and breaking bread, as opposed to information-dissemination and actually doing the work where it's fairly better. I won't say it's impossible, but the effort that would create lifelong friends and bosom comrades in flesh creates fair-weather acquaintances and middling contacts on the internet, so being internet-only is a false economy. This is not to say that if you aren't in the Bay Area, you can't contribute: this is to say that once clades of contributors exist in other cities, I will go fly to them and shake hands and buy coffee. In-person user groups are coming.

The default political state of online community is tyranny: perhaps that will change a generation hence but it hasn't changed the generation before, and it's leaking to ordinary life, unfortunately. All putative claims to enlightened tyranny are self-delusion, so I won't insult you with any such claims. But we will have an orderly transition from that default online tyranny to organization by dogfooding of Mertonon itself by November 5, 2029, 2:19pm Pacific time. This is not the date and time for dogfooding - we dogfood now already - but the date and time for handing over substantive control of the organization.

If you want to do dev, start at the `src/mertonon/generators` where we generate everything everywhere for property testing. Or natter me about actually doing proper dev docs, whereupon I will be, again, surprised that someone else wants to help.

We will get a code of conduct at some point. The act of economic allocation is unfailingly and inevitably political, so we will end up needing it. However, we will procrastinate a bit and get a terrible-people-in-the-community threat model before actually laying out the code of conduct, because the threat model could vary widely. AS Beer's project had to defend itself from concerted organized nation-state violence from RM Nixon and failed, ending in exile for Beer, prison, torture and exile for CFF Flores, torture, prison and death for the others. LV Kantorovich avoided the Gulag by the skin of his teeth and the charity of an unknown bureaucrat in helpfully mislaying his letter, having sent a letter to JV Stalin telling him he was doing Gosplan wrong. I can protect neither you nor myself against determined organized violence, especially determined organized world-power violence.

But perhaps we would just encounter the usual assholes and such, and we could be just another open-core sort of thing, strangers to violence. The code of conduct may or may not be an off-the-shelf one, because I can't find one which recognizes a nonzero chance of being thrown out of a helicopter or of meeting grisly death in some black site. This last concern is of interest even for the forker and the divergent-implementation-maker.
